docs: rules_python bzlmod GA and 1.0 prep (#2296)
bazelbuild/rules_python: docs/index.md

# Python Rules for Bazel

`rules_python` is the home for 4 major components with varying maturity levels.

:::{topic} Core rules

The core Python rules -- `py_library`, `py_binary`, `py_test`,
`py_proto_library`, and related symbols that provide the basis for Python
support in Bazel.

> When using bazel 6, the core rules built into the Bazel binary, and the symbols

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using bazel 6 (or earlier), the core rules are built into the Bazel binary, and the symbols
```

in this repository are simple aliases. On bazel 7 and above `rules_python` uses
a separate Starlark implementation,
see {ref}`Migrating from the Bundled Rules` below.

Once rules_python 1.0 is released, they will follow
[semantic versioning](https://semver.org) and the breaking change policy
outlined in the [support](support) page.

:::

:::{topic} PyPI integration

Package installation rules for integrating with PyPI and other SimpleAPI
compatible indexes.

These rules are still `experimental` and the APIs might change more often
than the core rules or you may experience regressions between the minor

> releases. In that case, please raise a GH issue.

Reviewer 2: lgtm

> releases. In that case, please raise tickets to the GH issues bug tracker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
releases. In that case, please raise a GH issue.
```

:::

:::{topic} Sphinxdocs

> `sphinxdocs` rules allowing users to generate documentation from bazel or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`sphinxdocs` rules allow users to generate documentation from bazel or
```

Python source code.

This is available as is and the semantic versioning used by `rules_python` does

> not apply to bazel rules or the output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not apply.
```

:::

:::{topic} Gazelle plugin

`gazelle` plugin for generating `BUILD.bazel` files based on Python source
code.

This is available as is and the semantic versioning used by `rules_python` does

> not apply to the plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not apply.
```
